\input texinfo
@comment %**start of header
@documentencoding UTF-8
@setfilename poke-el.info
@settitle Emacs interface to GNU poke
@set UPDATED 21 March 2022
@set VERSION 2.1
@afourpaper
@comment %**end of header

@macro ie
@i{i.e.@:}
@end macro

@copying
Copyright @copyright{} 2022 Jose E. Marchesi.

@quotation
You can redistribute it and/or modify this manual under the terms of
the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.
@end quotation
@end copying

@dircategory Emacs
@direntry
* Emacs meets GNU poke: (poke-el). Emacs interface to GNU poke
@end direntry

@titlepage
@title poke-el: an Emacs interface to GNU poke
@subtitle for version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}
@author by Jose E. Marchesi
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top poke-el: an Emacs interface to GNU poke

This manual documents version @value{VERSION} of poke.el.

@insertcopying
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Introduction::                Getting started

@detailmenu
 --- The Detailed Node Listing ---

Introduction

* Installation::                How to install this package
* Configuration::               Loading and configuring
* Running::                     Running and exiting poke
* Feedback::                    Bug reports, ideas, patches etc.
@end detailmenu
@end menu

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction

poke-el is an Emacs interface to GNU
poke@footnote{@url{https://jemarch.net/poke}}, the extensible editor
for structured binary data.

@menu
* Installation::                How to install this package
* Configuration::               Loading and configuring
* Running::                     Running and exiting poke
* Feedback::                    Bug reports, ideas, patches etc.
@end menu

@node Installation
@section Installation

This program is implemented in a self-contained elisp file called
@file{poke.el}.  It can be obtained in several ways:

@itemize @minus
@item From @url{https://elpa.gnu.org/packages/poke.html, GNU ELPA}
using the built-in Emacs package manager.
@item As part of the source tree cloned from the development git
repository of GNU poke.  @file{poke.el} can be found in the
@file{emacs/} directory of the GNU poke source tree.
@item As a single file downloaded form some other location in
internet.
@item It may be already installed as part of a binary package in some
distribution.
@end itemize

@noindent In the second case you need to tell Emacs where to locate the
@file{poke.el} file and to load it.  Add the following to your
@file{.emacs} file.

@lisp
(add-to-list 'load-path "~/path/to/poke-el/")
(require 'poke)
@end lisp

@noindent If @file{poke.el} was installed as part of a binary
package in a distribution then you usually don't have to touch the
@code{load-path} variable.  Depending on the specific case you may
have to @code{require} the package.

@node Configuration
@section Configuration
@cindex configuration

Once loaded, there are many aspects of poke-el that can be configured
by the user.

@menu
* Settings::                    Output numeration base and other settings.
* Window Layouts::              Predefined layouts.
@end menu

@node Settings
@subsection Settings

The following variables can be customized in order to change the
default behavior of poke.

@table @code
@item poke-setting-pretty-print
Indicates whether Poke values are pretty-printed.  Valid values are
the strings @code{"yes"} and @code{"no}.  Defaults to @code{"no"}.
@item poke-setting-omode
The numeration base to use when printing numerical values.  Valid
values are 2, 8, 10 and 16.  Defaults to 10.
@item poke-setting-omode
How to print composite Poke values, such as arrays and structs.  Valid
values are @code{"plain"} and @code{"tree"}.
@end table

Note that all the settings above can be interactively changed at any
time using the settings editor.  XXX xref.

@node Window Layouts
@subsection Window Layouts

The poke Emacs interface is composed by many different buffers, each
playing a different role: the repl, the bytes viewer, the settings
editor, the maps tree, @i{etc}.  When using the interface, actions
will often result in many of these buffers to be displayed using
@code{switch-to-buffer-other-window}.

In Emacs it is possible to configure how buffers are associated to
windows by customizing the @code{display-buffer-alist} variable.  This
is often used in order to make the interface more predictable, i.e. to
always have certain of the buffers shown in the same area of the
screen.

poke-el provides an example of such a configuration, that you can use
as-is or as the basis of your own layouts, in the function
@code{poke-frame-layout-1}.  This function appends entries to
@code{display-buffer-alist}.  It implements the following window
layout:

@smallexample
@group
     ___________________________________
    |                                   |
    |            *poke-vu*              |
    |                                   |
    |___________________________________|
    |                  |                |
    |                  |                |
    |                  | *poke-maps*/   |
    |                  | *poke-edit*/   |
    |    *poke-repl*   | *poke-code*/   |
    |                  | *poke-ios*/    |
    |                  | *poke-settings*|
    |                  |                |
    |__________________|________________|
    |                                   |
    |            *poke-out*             |
    |___________________________________|
@end group
@end smallexample

To use this layout, simply include this call in your
@file{.emacs}:

@lisp
(poke-frame-layout-1)
@end lisp

@node Running
@section Running

Once you have loaded and configured poke-el, it is time to run poke!
To do so, simply issue @kbd{M-xpoke}.

This command will start the poke daemon if it wasn't already running
and initialize the interface if necessary. Then it will show the poke
windows in the current frame (using whatever configured layout.
@xref{Window Layouts}) and drop you on the poke REPL.

In order to exit poke, you can either use the command
@kbd{M-xpoke-exit} or the @command{quit} command at the repl:

@example
#!poke!# quit
@end example

@node Feedback
@section Feedback
@cindex feedback
@cindex bug reports

If you find problems with poke-el, or if you have questions, remarks,
or ideas about it, please mail to the GNU poke mailing list
@email{poke-devel@@gnu.org}.  If you are not a member of the mailing
list, your mail will be passed to the list after a moderator has
approved it@footnote{Please consider subscribing to the mailing list,
in order to minimize the work the mailing list moderators have to do.
The subscription can be done online at
@url{http://lists.gnu.org/mailman/listinfo/poke-devel}.}.

@bye
